External requirements:

You will need to download and install Java if you do not have installed already: http://java.com/en/download/index.jsp
You will also need to download and install R: http://www.r-project.org/

Finally, R will need to run from the command line. As such, you need to make sure that the R path e.g. C:\Program Files\R\R-2.14.1\bin is added to your environment variables (for a help guide on how to do this, see http://support.microsoft.com/kb/310519 or http://www.microsoft.com/resources/documentation/windows/xp/all/proddocs/en-us/environment_variables.mspx?mfr=true

Installation instructions:

First, make sure Java and R are installed and can be run from the command line (see above).

Please note, this software should be platform independent but it has only been tested on Windows (XP 32bit), Windows 7 (64bit). If you require support for Linux/Mac installations, please get in touch. The software is maintained by the research group of Andy Jones: http://pcwww.liv.ac.uk/~jonesar/jonesar.html

To download the software, visit the download page: http://code.google.com/p/ion-mobility-ms-tools/downloads/

Download the zip files, unzip to any location on your hard drive. 

Inside both mobiliy_mzIdentML and MzidReader there are various batch files (.bat extension) that contain example commands for running the softare on Windows. If you double-click these, they should run automatically. Try opening these batch files in a text editor, e.g. Notepad, and change the location of the input files to your own local files that you would like to test.

Please note, the software only supports mzIdentML version 1.1 - which is the stable release of this format.